#summary Manual for setting up the project (in eclipse) as a developer.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Phase-Requirements

= Introduction =
On this page I will try to give some advice about how to initially set up the project in eclipse.

= Setting up =
== Requirements ==
 * Make sure you have the Java 1.6 JDK or higher.
 * As an IDE I use eclipse with subclipse plugin for svn support. 
== svn checkout and eclipse project ==
 * First checkout trunk using 'svn checkout https://bolscript.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ bolscript --username your.name' . Move the trunk folder into your eclipse workspace and rename it to bolscript or whatever.
In eclipse create a new Java Project, select _create from existing source_ and select the  folder.
 * In Eclipse go to preferences->team->ignored resources and add .project, .classpath, settings.xml, or deselect them at each commit.
 * In project preferences make sure the source folders are bolscript_src, bolscript_tests, gat_src, gat_tests, and set the Java Compiler to 1.6 or greater.
== required libraries ==
In the project preferences add links to the following libraries:
 * junit 4
 * itext - this is used for pdf export. Download the itext core jar from http://www.lowagie.com/iText/ and place it somewhere,
I have an additional folder 3dparty, where I save this kind of stuff. 
 * swixml - this is not used in bolscript, but in gat. Get a jar at http://www.swixml.org/.

= The main stuctures =
Note that two projects are included.
== bolscript ==
The tabla notation project. The bolscript source folders are bolscript_src and bolscript_tests and they are independent of the other group called gat
Main class is bolscript/Master[Mac]
== gat ==
A tabla composition project I started 2006 in my bachelor report and haven't updated much since then. I want to keep it in here, so it keeps working when refactorings in bolscript are done. (I moved all components which are used in bolscript to the bolscript folders, so gat depends on bolscript) Main class is managing/Manager.


==Running bolscript==
Run bolscript/Master[Mac] as a Java Program. Copy the resources/tablafolder_default somewhere on your system, and choose it as tabla folder when first running bolscript. Running bolscript generates a settings.xml. Do not add it to svn please.